Apparmor 1.30 (#45176)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tutorials/security/apparmor.md

> {{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.4" state="beta" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="AppArmor" >}}
```

   Y
   ```

>    The Kubelet will verify that AppArmor is enabled on the host before admitting a pod with AppArmor

Reviewer: (nit) kubelet, lower case.

   explicitly configured.

3. Container runtime supports AppArmor -- Currently all common Kubernetes-supported container
   runtimes should support AppArmor, including {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="containerd" >}} and
   {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="cri-o" >}}. Please refer to the corresponding runtime
   documentation and verify that the cluster fulfills the requirements to use AppArmor.

4. Profile is loaded -- AppArmor is applied to a Pod by specifying an AppArmor profile that each
   container should be run with. If any of the specified profiles is not already loaded in the

>    kernel, the Kubelet will reject the Pod. You can view which profiles are loaded on a

Reviewer: (nit) kubelet, lower case.

   For more details on loading profiles on nodes, see
   [Setting up nodes with profiles](#setting-up-nodes-with-profiles).

<!-- lessoncontent -->

## Securing a Pod

> {{< note >}}

Reviewer: Could you ever end up, on supported Kubernetes, running a Pod that you thought was confined but not? (this depends on how Kubernetes 1.27 handles unrecognized fields).

> {{< note >}}

Author: Yes. Using only the field prior to apiserver v1.30 will result in the field being dropped, and the default AppArmor profile will be used (probably most common for this to over-constrain, but could under-constrain if a custom profile is used).

After approximately k8s v1.34 supplying only the annotation will no longer work.

> {{< note >}}

Author: I think caution makes sense here.

  Type     Reason     Age              From               Message
  ----     ------     ----             ----               -------
  Normal   Scheduled  10s              default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/hello-apparmor to gke-test-default-pool-239f5d02-x1kf
  Normal   Pulled     8s               kubelet            Successfully pulled image "busybox:1.28" in 370.157088ms (370.172701ms including waiting)
  Normal   Pulling    7s (x2 over 9s)  kubelet            Pulling image "busybox:1.28"
  Warning  Failed     7s (x2 over 8s)  kubelet            Error: failed to get container spec opts: failed to generate apparmor spec opts: apparmor profile not found k8s-apparmor-example-allow-write
  Normal   Pulled     7s               kubelet            Successfully pulled image "busybox:1.28" in 90.980331ms (91.005869ms including waiting)
```

An event provides the error message with the reason. Note that the specific wording is runtime-dependent:
```
  Warning  Failed     7s (x2 over 8s)  kubelet            Error: failed to get container spec opts: failed to generate apparmor spec opts: apparmor profile not found 
```

## Administration

### Setting up nodes with profiles

> Kubernetes does not currently provide any built-in mechanisms for loading AppArmor profiles onto

Reviewer: Having regard to https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#avoid-statements-about-the-future
```suggestion
Kubernetes {{< skew currentVersion >}} does not provide any built-in mechanisms for loading AppArmor profiles onto
```

> ## API Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Specifying AppArmor confinement
```
(this page is supposed to be a tutorial)

> ### AppArmor Profile

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
### AppArmor profile within security context {#appArmorProfile}
```

{{< note >}}
Prior to Kubernetes v1.30, AppArmor was specified through annotations. Use the documentation version
selector to view the documentation with this deprecated API.

> {{< /note >}}

Reviewer: This could go before the level three heading. Up to you.

> The `appArmorProfile` can be set on either a container's `securityContext` or pod's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify the `appArmorProfile` on either a container's `securityContext` or on a Pod's
```
capital P if talking about the API kind

`securityContext`. If the profile is set at the pod level, it will be used as the default profile

> for all containers in the pod (including init & ephemeral containers). If both a pod & container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for all containers in the pod (including init, sidecar, and ephemeral containers). If both a pod & container
```
